IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT, A WOODEN BOX WILL DO

(My Father -- a Man of Wooden Boxes)

By Anabeth James, 1987

My father's desk in "the office" - the unfinished room where "cabiniters", as my father called them, came into register - was nothing more that a gigantic wooden box - a monstrosity - elevated to the right level for writing by four wooden-board legs. The register was a big black, ledger-type book which always lay open with a clothes pin clip and a rubber band.

Underneath my father's desk was a big wooden green box which had a hasp-type opening. This box contained the rubber overshoes and galoshes of each family member. We always knew where to find 'em!

Mother's canned goods and preserves were kept in this same room which we called "the office". Her assortment of canned goods was kept in the "black cupboard" - a big black, rectangular, wooden box upon which Father had made two swinging doors. These doors closed with a mounted stick that turned on a nail. (Like the outhouse door at Red Feather!) On top of the black cupboard, Father kept his old heavy adding machine and his Remington typewriter.

Father, of course, did not do his correspondence, bookkeeping, and other office work in "the office" because there was no place and because "the office" was unheated during the cold winter months. However, Father had rigged up a special portable typewriter-table made out of wooden box. This box fit right on top of a kitchen chair. To my childish observations, it was really quite cleverly made. The box contained a couple of shelves on which Father kept his hatchery letterhead, yellow copy sheets, and his carbon paper. It also had a hollow dowel (from an empty crinoline roll) cut to fit and fastened to one end, in which he kept his sharpened yellow pencils. On top of this box he placed his typewriter and he sat on another Kitchen chair facing this impromptu desk and spread out his correspondence and papers on the kitchen table to his left.

In our basement, where Father had his chicken hatchery, there was a collection of wonderful, big rectangular, wooden boxes... but I must say, as one descended the stairs to the basement (from the office), one saw a big open wooden box to his left. This Father made for our trash box! He was faithful to empty it every day. Right across the stairs from the wooden trash box was a small wooden box that Father had sectioned off to receive six milk bottles. Every morning, the milkman slipped in our back door, picked up the empty bottles and left fresh milk in Father's special wooden box.

The big wooden boxes in the basement were an absolute heaven for John and me. They were so big--yet movable. I guess Father made these wooden boxes for placing large egg crates for easy loading of his incubator trays and for an assortment of other practical purposes. Mother used the wooden boxes on wash day to place her two big galvanized tubs (for her two rinse waters) in stair-step fashion. I personally found those boxes made beautiful wall-makers for my imaginary house when I played dolls in the basement in the summertime. I remember John lined up the boxes tub-style for a train and the neighborhood kids piled in! These boxes made extra good barriers when shooting guns in "Cops n' Robbers". Before hatching season started and it was cold and snowy outside, all three of us would rollerskate around and round in circles in the basement, using the wooden boxes for obstacles in slalom fashion. I remember wearing the roller skate key tied around my neck and having good ol' Uncle Frank, Father's bachelor brother, always available to tighten, loosen, or fix my skates, Sometimes he'd sit by the warm stove at the center of our skate-around.

I often went with Father on his bloodtesting trips. In the early spring, he went to the farms of his flock owners who furnished him with eggs and tested their chickens for several poultry maladies. I always went with him to the big Louis Arnold farm near LaGrange because I had lots of fun with Louis's daughter Ruby. She showed me the sights of the farm and there always were new little kittens somewhere! I didn't pay much attention to Father's job of blood testing each chicken.. but I did Know Father' most important instrument (bloodtester) was housed in a brown wooden box about the size of four men's shoe boxes (combined) with a brass hook as an opener. I think Father (or maybe Raymond McConnell) made that wooden bloodtesting box.

And then there were the summer days when Father made homemade ice cream, he would get the ice needed from an ice house. It came in big Chunks.. but Father solved this problem by turning up one of the wooden boxes (tub fashion) and smashing the ice with a 4-by-4 with handles that he had constructed.

Because my brother John was very small when he started having a keen interest in the family car and in driving, he always sat in the front seat between Father and Mother. He observed each movement Father made when shifting gears. He kept a watchful eye on each gauge and control on the dash board. He wanted to view the road, too, but he of course, was too short. Not to worry! Father rigged up the best little seat for John in our car. It was a little wooden box that had "San Jose prunes, San Jose California", written on the side. (Mother still had that little wooden box in use, for a variety of reasons, when she lived in her new house.)

"Put it in the MOUND BOX", Mother or Father would often say. The MOUND BOX was not a wooden box. It was a strange, corrugated cardboard box that once had Peter-Paul Mound Chocolate bars shipped in it. It became our family suitcase! On our many, many (and often sudden and unplanned) trips to the cabin, we never really took any luggage. A little black bag contained all our toiletries. Everything else was carried in the MOUND BOX.

Have you ever noticed where Father kept his work gloves for chopping wood or stoking fires at the Red Feather cabin? It's a box! A cut-down cardboard box above the kitchen range. He was a man of boxes!